# When to use Docker and what are the benefits

Docker is useful container platform for multipurpose web-applications or any other applications which need spesific platform to run correctly. With Docker it's possible to create customized platform suited for application needs. Meaning that you do not have to include whole operating system when building and running the application but just all those parts which are needed to run the application. Because Docker images can be built with help of Dockerfile or Dockerfile + docker-compose.yml settings it's easy and lightweight to transfrom and install Docker images from one system to other.

Docker platform is constant in every host enviroment it is placed. It does not really care if subsystem is Linux or Windows because it has it's own operating system or so to say container which has everything needed to run current application instance. For example if you have testing environment in Amazon or any other cloud environment and production in your own server it's easy to say that when Docker image is working with Amazon server it does work as well in your own system.

Docker should be used when multiple different kind of environments are utilized or if new application instances are needed to be generated often. Docker platform is also great place to do integration testing because you can allways change system versions pretty much on the go without installing all kind of systems in to your own server. So for example if your app is running with Docker (PHP 5) and you would like to see how it works with PHP 7.2 you can just change the version and rebuild the container.
